docs: add blog post for multi-stage delivery (#3352)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/blog/posts/multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops.md

---
date: 2024-03-26
authors: [bacherfl]
description: >

>   This blog post explains how to use the promotion phase of Keptn to implement a multi stage delivery GitOps workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This blog post explains how to use the promotion phase of Keptn
 with OpenTelemetry and GitHub capabilities
 to implement a multi stage delivery GitOps workflow.
 For this exercise, we deploy the application with ArgoCD
 and use Prometheus as the data provider for OpenTelemetry
 but the same steps could be used with other deployment engines
 and other data provideres.
```

categories:
  - GitOps
  - Observability
comments: true
---

# Multi Stage Delivery using GitOps

> In multi-stage environments it can often become a challenge to keep an overview of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In multi-stage environments, it can b a challenge to see
```

how a particular version of a workload progresses through different stages.

> This can make it difficult to trace back which exact introduced a problem
> when something goes wrong in one of the deployment stages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can make it difficult to precisely trace exactly which modification introduced a problem
when something goes wrong in one of the deployment stages.
```

Having a distributed OpenTelemetry trace that encompasses all
deployment stages and contains all relevant information,
such as the git commit ID that triggered the deployment of a workload,

> helps to address this challenge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helps to address this challenge.
Using Keptn to run OpenTelemetry lets us trace a Keptn application,
which is an abstraction that connects multiple
[Workloads](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
that logically belong together.

```

For example, if the evaluation of a load test in one of the deployment stages

> is failing, the distributed trace generated by Keptn not only contains
> details about the result of the evaluation, but also a link to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is failing, the distributed trace generated by Keptn contains
details about the result of the evaluation, as well as a link to the
```

deployment trace of the previous stage.
This makes it easy to trace back the deployment of that particular workload
across the previous stages, right until the original commit that resulted in
the performance degradation.

This blog post demonstrates an example workflow that automates the promotion
of a sample application across two different stages.
The deployment traces of those stages are linked together and enriched
with valuable metadata, such as the commit ID that triggered the deployment
of a new workload version.

<!-- more -->

## Technologies used for this example

For this, we are using the following technologies:

> - The new [KeptnAppContext CRD](../../docs/reference/crd-reference/appcontext.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new [KeptnAppContext](../../docs/reference/crd-reference/appcontext.md)
resource
```

     1. Defining the metadata to be passed through the deployment traces
     1. Define a TraceParent that links the deployment traces of the `prod` stage to those of the `dev` stage
1. Run the promotion flow by:
     1. Creating a pull request to update our `dev` environment
     1. Merging the automatically created pull request to promote the updated version into `prod`
     1. Inspecting the generated deployment traces for both stages
   and see how they are connected with each other

## Setting up the Environment

Now it's time to set up our environment and connect all the tools mentioned above
with each other.

### Set up the GitHub repository

First things first, since we talk about GitOps in this article, we need
a git repository to host the helm chart of our application.
In this example, we are using GitHub, since this also allows us
to make use of GitHub Actions to implement the promotion from
`dev` to `production`.

In this example, we are using [this repository](https://github.com/bacherfl/keptn-analysis-demo)
as an upstream repository.
If you would like to try the demo yourself, feel free to fork this repository
and start experimenting with Keptn from there.

> The first step in setting up the demo environment is to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create personal access token

The first step in setting up the demo environment is to
```

create a personal access token for accessing the GitHub API.
This token will be used by the container running the promotion
task during the post-deployment phase of the `KeptnApp` within
the `dev` stage.
Using the access token, the container triggers a GitHub action
that creates a pull request to promote the version that has
been deployed in `dev` into `production`.
Using this GitHub actions-based approach instead of directly
interacting with the git repository in the container executing the promotion
step has the advantage of not having to grant the container any write permissions to the
repository.

Instead, an access token with a restricted set of permissions can be used,
se we can make use of GitHub's [fine-grained access tokens](https://github.blog/2022-10-18-introducing-fine-grained-personal-access-tokens-for-github/)
to restrict the permissions to only be able to trigger workflow actions,
exclusively within our GitOps repository.
The required permissions are highlighted in the screenshot below:

![Token Permissions](./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/token-permissions.png)

> Another prerequisite to take care of is to enable GitHub workflows to write to the repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Enable GitHub workflows

Another prerequisite to take care of is to enable GitHub workflows to write to the repo
```

Therefore, we need to create a secret containing the GitHub personal
access token we created earlier, using the following command:

```shell
GH_REPO_OWNER=<YOUR_GITHUB_USER>
GH_REPO=<YOUR_GITHUB_REPO>
GH_API_TOKEN=<YOUR_GITHUB_TOKEN>
kubectl create secret generic github-token -n simple-go --from-literal=SECURE_DATA="{\"githubRepo\":\"${GH_REPO}\",\"githubRepoOwner\":\"${GH_REPO_OWNER}\",\"apiToken\":\"${GH_API_TOKEN}\"}"
```

### Prepare the ArgoCD applications

The next step is to
create the ArgoCD applications in our cluster.
Each stage of our application (`dev` `production`) is
represented by a separate ArgoCD application which points to
a helm chart for the respective stage.
The helm charts can be found in our [GitOps repository](https://github.com/bacherfl/keptn-analysis-demo)
in the following sub folders:

- `simple-app/chart-dev`: Contains the helm chart for the application in the `dev` stage
- `simple-app/chart-prod`: Contains the helm chart for the application in the `prod` stage

The ArgoCD applications are created by applying the following manifest:

```yaml title="argo-apps.yaml"
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/argo-apps.yaml" %}
```

> The manifest above contains the definition for the two ArgoCD
> applications which both point to the helm charts mentioned earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The manifest above contains the definition for the two ArgoCD applications
each or which points to one of the helm charts mentioned earlier.
```

In addition to that, the `$ARGOCD_APP_REVISION` environment variable
is used to get access to the git commit ID that triggered
a new deployment of our applications.
This ID is passed through to the helm chart and is used by
Keptn to include this as metadata for a `KeptnApp` deployment.

After applying the file, using `kubectl apply -f argo-apps.yaml`,
ArgoCD begins to synchronize the state of the applications,
meaning that the helm charts for the applications are applied to the
cluster.
While this is happening, let's have a closer look at the actual
content of the helm charts.

> Both charts contain two `Deployments/Services`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What's in the Helm charts

Both charts contain two `Deployments/Services`
```

(`simple-go-service` and `simple-go-backend`), representing
the two `KeptnWorkloads` that are part of our `KeptnApp`.
Let's take the `simple-go-service` `Deployment` as an example
to see how we prepared it to be managed by Keptn:

```yaml
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/deployment.yaml" %}
```

> To correctly associate the `Deployment` to `KeptnWorkload`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To correctly associate the `Deployment` resource with the `KeptnWorkload` resource,
```

> To correctly associate the `Deployment` to `KeptnWorkload`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Labels

To correctly associate the `Deployment` to `KeptnWorkload`,
```

the following labels are set:

- `app.kubernetes.io/name`: The name of the `KeptnWorkload` that should be associated with the `Deployment`.
- `app.kubernetes.io/part-of`: The name of the `KeptnApp` containing the two workloads.
- `app.kubernetes.io/version`: The version for the related `KeptnWorkload`.

> In addition to the labels which define the `KeptnWorkload`, we also use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Post-deployment tasks

In addition to the labels which define the `KeptnWorkload`, we also use
```

the `keptn.sh/post-deployment-tasks` to define a post-deployment task for the
workload.
The task defined here (`wait-for-monitoring`) ensures the Prometheus
target for the workload is available, before proceeding with
the execution of the load tests of the overall application.

> Another resource worth mentioning is the `KeptnAppContext`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### KeptnAppContext

Another resource worth mentioning is the `KeptnAppContext`,
```

which looks as follows:

```yaml
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/keptnappcontext.yaml" %}
```

This resource contains a list of pre- and post-deployment checks
for the complete application.
In the `pre-deployment` phase, the task `wait-for-monitoring`
ensures the Prometheus installation in our cluster is available.
If this is not the case, it would not be wise to deploy a new
version of the application, since we cannot observe the
performance metrics of our application.

Once all workloads have been deployed, the application enters the
`post-deployment` phase, in which load tests against the application are
executed.

After executing the load tests, a `post-deployment` evaluation is

> performed, in which the response time of the deployed workloads
> is evaluated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performed, to compare the response time measured by the load tests with a threshold you have defined.
```

> Finally, if all checks have passed, the application proceeds into the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this evaluation is successful, the application proceeds into the
```

`promotion` phase.
This is the phase where the GitHub personal access token we created earlier
is used to trigger the GitHub action to promote the deployed version
into the next stage.

> In addition to the pre-/post-deployment checks and the promotion task,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Metadata

In addition to the pre-/post-deployment checks and the promotion task,
```

the `KeptnAppContext` also contains a `metadata` property that
passes the `commitID` made available by ArgoCD to the
application deployment.
This information is then added by Keptn as an attribute to the
OpenTelemetry traces created for the application deployment.

To configure the application, the `values.yaml`
file is used.
Within that file, the versions for the two workloads that
are part of the application are defined,
as well as the target response time for the evaluation
in the post-deployment phase.
Also, the git commit ID mentioned earlier is set here.
The git commit ID is empty by default, but is set automatically
by ArgoCD, using the `$ARGOCD_APP_REVISION` environment variable.

```yaml
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/values-dev.yaml" %}
```

> The helm chart of the `prod` stage is rather similar to the one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What's in the Helm chart for prod stage

The helm chart of the `prod` stage is rather similar to the one
```

for the `dev` stage, but differs in the `values.yaml`, and the
`KeptnAppContext`.
First, let's inspect the `values.yaml` in `prod`:

```yaml
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/values-prod.yaml" %}
```

> This file contains an additional property called `traceParent`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### TraceParent property

The `values.yaml` file for the `prod` stage
contains an additional property called `traceParent`,
```

which is essential in linking the deployment traces of the
`prod` stage to the previous stage, i.e. the `dev` stage.
The `traceParent` is propagated from Keptn to the GitHub action that
does the promotion by adapting the `values.yaml` file to
specify the workload versions that should be deployed in `prod`.

> In our example, the value of the `traceParent` is the span ID of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### spanLinks property

In our example, the value of the `traceParent` is the span ID of the
```

version is deployed to `dev`.
This is reflected by a new `KeptnAppVersion` being created by Keptn,
for which the pre-/post-deployment checks
and the evaluation that were mentioned earlier are executed.
After some time, the new version is up and running in `dev`
and the deployment trace for the new `KeptnAppVersion` is
visible in Jaeger:

![Deployment trace dev](./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/deployment-trace-dev.png)

As you can see, the generated trace also contains the commitID that triggered
the deployment (i.e. the commit in which the version was changed).
We also see that the `promotion` phase has been executed successfully, so let's
check our GitOps repository and inspect the automatically created pull request
to promote the version into the next stage:

![PR to update prod](./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/pr-dev-to-prod.png)

As expected, the pull request updates the `values.yaml` file for the
`prod` stage to update the `serviceVersion` to the same value we just
deployed in `dev`.
In addition to that, the `traceParent` property is set to the
span ID of the `promotion` phase of the deployment in `dev`.

> Once the PR is merged, Keptn will take care of deploying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the PR is merged, Keptn deploys
```

     1. Defining the metadata to be passed through the deployment traces
     1. Define a TraceParent that links the deployment traces of the `prod` stage to those of the `dev` stage
1. Run the promotion flow by:
     1. Creating a pull request to update our `dev` environment
     1. Merging the automatically created pull request to promote the updated version into `prod`
     1. Inspecting the generated deployment traces for both stages
   and see how they are connected with each other

## Setting up the Environment

Now it's time to set up our environment and connect all the tools mentioned above
with each other.

### Set up the GitHub repository

First things first, since we talk about GitOps in this article, we need
a git repository to host the Helm chart of our application.
We use GitHub in this example, which allows us
to use GitHub Actions to implement the promotion from
`dev` to `production`.

In this example, we are using [this repository](https://github.com/bacherfl/keptn-analysis-demo)
as an upstream repository.
If you would like to try the demo yourself, feel free to fork this repository
and start experimenting with Keptn from there.

#### Create personal access token

> First, we need to create a personal access token for accessing the GitHub API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to create a personal access token for accessing the GitHub API.
```

This token will be used by the container running the promotion
task during the post-deployment phase of the `KeptnApp` within
the `dev` stage.
The container uses this access token to trigger a GitHub action
that creates a pull request to promote the version that has
been deployed from `dev` into `production`.

> By using GitHub actions rather than interacting directly with the Git repository in the container that executes the promotion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using GitHub actions rather than interacting directly with the Git repository in the container that executes the promotion
```

step lets us avoid granting the container any write permissions to the
repository.

> Instead, an access token with a restricted set of permissions can be used,
> se we can make use of GitHub's [fine-grained access tokens](https://github.blog/2022-10-18-introducing-fine-grained-personal-access-tokens-for-github/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, we use an access token with a restricted set of permissions,
so we can use of GitHub's [fine-grained access tokens](https://github.blog/2022-10-18-introducing-fine-grained-personal-access-tokens-for-github/)
```

the following labels are set:

- `app.kubernetes.io/name`: The name of the `KeptnWorkload` that should be associated with the `Deployment`.
- `app.kubernetes.io/part-of`: The name of the `KeptnApp` containing the two workloads.
- `app.kubernetes.io/version`: The version for the related `KeptnWorkload`.

#### Pre and post-deployment tasks

In addition to the labels which define the `KeptnWorkload`, we also use
the `keptn.sh/post-deployment-tasks` to define a post-deployment task for the
workload.
The task defined here (`wait-for-monitoring`) ensures that the Prometheus
target for the workload is available, before proceeding with
the execution of the load tests of the overall application.

#### KeptnAppContext

The `KeptnAppContext` provides two important capabilities for multi-stage delivery:

- Define tasks and evaluations that run before or after the application deployment
- Add metadata and links to traces for a specific application.
This enables you to enrich your traces
with additional information that you can use
to understand and analyze the performance of your applications
which looks as follows:

  ```yaml

>   {% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/keptnappcontext.yaml" %}

Reviewer: Ideally, this should be indented so it plays out under the bullet item that leads into it.  Up to you if you want to be that precise ;-)  I think it would need 4 spaces --  2 to line up with the text of the bullet item and two more to be indented from that.  Not the end of the world if you don't do this.  Just mark it as resolved.

  ```

This resource contains a list of pre- and post-deployment checks

> for the complete application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the complete Keptn application.
```
or you could use `KeptnApp` if you prefer.

I just realized that this is a place where you need to be very precise about whether you are talking about an ArgoCD Application or a KeptnApp

In the `pre-deployment` phase, the task `wait-for-monitoring`
ensures the Prometheus installation in our cluster is available.
If this is not the case, it would not be wise to deploy a new
version of the application, since we cannot observe the

> performance metrics of our application.

Reviewer: I just realized that you explain why we need this check but you don't explicitly say that Keptn shuts down the deployment here if this evaluation fails.

Once all workloads have been deployed, the application enters the
`post-deployment` phase, in which load tests against the application are
executed.

After executing the load tests, a `post-deployment` evaluation is
performed, to compare the response time measured by the load tests with a threshold you have defined.

If this evaluation is successful, the application proceeds into the
`promotion` phase.
This is the phase where the GitHub personal access token we created earlier
is used to trigger the GitHub action to promote the deployed version
into the next stage.

#### Metadata

In addition to the pre-/post-deployment checks and the promotion task,
the `KeptnAppContext` also contains a `metadata` property that
passes the `commitID` made available by ArgoCD to the
application deployment.
This information is then added by Keptn as an attribute to the
OpenTelemetry traces created for the application deployment.

> To configure the application, the `values.yaml`

Reviewer: Is this the ArgoCD Application or the KeptnApp?

Author: that's for configuring the helm chart which holds all the manifests from which the KeptnApp will be derived

---
date: 2024-03-26
authors: [bacherfl]
description: >
  This blog post explains how to use the promotion phase of Keptn to implement a multi stage delivery GitOps workflow.
categories:
  - GitOps
  - Observability
comments: true
---

# Multi Stage Delivery using GitOps

In multi-stage environments it can be a challenge to see
how a particular version of a workload progresses through different stages.
This can make it difficult to precisely trace exactly which modification introduced a problem
when something goes wrong in one of the deployment stages.

> Having a distributed OpenTelemetry trace that encompasses all
> deployment stages and contains all relevant information,
> such as the git commit ID that triggered the deployment of a workload,
> helps to address this challenge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keptn helps to address this challenge
by providing a distributed OpenTelemetry trace that encompasses
all deployment stages and contains all relevant information,
such as the git commit ID that triggered the deployment of a workload.
```

details about the result of the evaluation, as well as a link to the
deployment trace of the previous stage.
This makes it easy to trace back the deployment of that particular workload
across the previous stages, right until the original commit that resulted in
the performance degradation.

This blog post demonstrates an example workflow that automates the promotion
of a sample application across two different stages.
The deployment traces of those stages are linked together and enriched
with valuable metadata, such as the commit ID that triggered the deployment
of a new workload version.

<!-- more -->

## Technologies used for this example

For this, we are using the following technologies:

- The new [KeptnAppContext](../../docs/reference/crd-reference/appcontext.md)
resource
  that allows to pass metadata to the generated deployment traces, and define a `promotion`
  task that is executed once the application is deployed and all post deployment checks have been
  executed successfully.
- [ArgoCD](https://argoproj.github.io/cd/) as a GitOps tool.
  In addition to automatically synchronising the cluster with the desired

>   state of the cluster, ArgoCD also adds metadata such as the git commit ID
>   that triggered the last sync to the `KeptnAppContext` CRD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  state of the cluster, ArgoCD also adds metadata (such as the git commit ID
  that triggered the last sync) to the `KeptnAppContext` CRD.
```

> - [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions): With the GitOps
>   repository being hosted on GitHub, we are making use of GitHub Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions): The GitOps
  repository is hosted on GitHub so we can use GitHub Actions
```

>   to implement the promotion of an artifact from one stage to the next by
>   running a workflow that creates the pull requests for updating the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to implement the promotion of an artifact from one stage to the next.
  We do this by running a workflow that creates the pull requests for updating the
```

  application manifests in the different stages.

> - [Helm](https://helm.sh): The configuration of the application in both stages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Helm](https://helm.sh): The configuration of the application for each stage
```

>   is maintained via two separate Helm charts respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is maintained via two separate Helm charts, one for each stage.
```

- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/)/[Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io):
  The deployment traces are gathered by the OpenTelemetry Collector and forwarded to Jaeger,

>   where we can view the generated traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which displays the generated traces graphically.
```

- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io): Provides monitoring data for the application.

Note that for this blog post, we are assuming that these tools are already
installed on the Kubernetes cluster, as going through the installation
of each of those would exceed the scope of this blog post.

> As this is quite a complex setup, here is a preview of what steps
> are involved in setting everything up.
> We are going to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to do the following:
```

1. Set up the environment by:
     1. Setting up a GitHub repository with an access token, GitHub, workflows, and GitHub actions
     1. Preparing a Kubernetes namespace for each stage (`dev` and `prod`)
     1. Preparing the ArgoCD applications with an appropriate Helm chart for each

>      1. Applying labels to associate the Deployment resource with the KeptnWorkload resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     1. Applying labels to associate the `Deployment` resource with the `KeptnWorkload` resource
```

     1. Defining Keptn pre-/post-deployment checks and tasks
     1. Defining the metadata to be passed through the deployment traces
     1. Define a TraceParent that links the deployment traces of the `prod` stage to those of the `dev` stage
1. Run the promotion flow by:
     1. Creating a pull request to update our `dev` environment
     1. Merging the automatically created pull request to promote the updated version into `prod`
     1. Inspecting the generated deployment traces for both stages
   and see how they are connected with each other

## Setting up the Environment

Now it's time to set up our environment and connect all the tools mentioned above
with each other.

### Set up the GitHub repository

First things first, since we talk about GitOps in this article, we need
a git repository to host the Helm chart of our application.

> In this example, we are using GitHub, since this also allows us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are use GitHub in this example, which allows us
```

> to make use of GitHub Actions to implement the promotion from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use GitHub Actions to implement the promotion from
```

`dev` to `production`.

In this example, we are using [this repository](https://github.com/bacherfl/keptn-analysis-demo)
as an upstream repository.
If you would like to try the demo yourself, feel free to fork this repository
and start experimenting with Keptn from there.

#### Create personal access token

> The first step in setting up the demo environment is to
> create a personal access token for accessing the GitHub API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to create a personal access token for accessing the GitHub API.
```

This token will be used by the container running the promotion
task during the post-deployment phase of the `KeptnApp` within
the `dev` stage.

> Using the access token, the container triggers a GitHub action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The container uses this access token to trigger a GitHub action
```

that creates a pull request to promote the version that has

> been deployed in `dev` into `production`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
been deployed from `dev` into `production`.
```

> Using this GitHub actions-based approach instead of directly
> interacting with the git repository in the container executing the promotion
> step has the advantage of not having to grant the container any write permissions to the
> repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using GitHub actions rather than interacting directly with the Git repository in the container that executes the promotion
step lets us avoid granting the container any write permissions to the
repository.
```

Instead, an access token with a restricted set of permissions can be used,
se we can make use of GitHub's [fine-grained access tokens](https://github.blog/2022-10-18-introducing-fine-grained-personal-access-tokens-for-github/)
to restrict the permissions to only be able to trigger workflow actions,
exclusively within our GitOps repository.
The required permissions are highlighted in the screenshot below:

![Token Permissions](./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/token-permissions.png)

#### Enable GitHub workflows

> Another prerequisite to take care of is to enable GitHub workflows to write to the repo
> and create pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also need to enable GitHub workflows to write to the repo
and create pull requests.
```

> This is done in the settings of the repository, see the screenshot below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done in the settings of the repository; see the screenshot below:
```

![Workflow Permissions](./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/workflow-permissions.png)

The GitHub action performing the promotion is implemented
in the following file, located in `.github/workflows/promote.yaml`
within our GitOps repository.

```yaml
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/promote.yaml" %}
```

> This action copies over the `values.yaml` file from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action copies the `values.yaml` file from the
```

`dev` stage to the `prod` stage, to set the
service versions that should be deployed via the Helm chart for
that stage.

### Prepare the application namespaces

In this example, the application will be deployed in
two different namespaces, each representing a different
stage (`dev` and `prod`).
To create the namespaces, execute the following commands:

```shell
kubectl create namespace simple-go
kubectl annotate namespace simple-go keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit=enabled
kubectl create namespace simple-go-prod
kubectl annotate namespace simple-go-prod keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit=enabled
```

The promotion task that triggers the action to
create a pull request for promoting an application version
from `dev` to `production` will be executed in the `simple-go` namespace.
Therefore, we need to create a secret containing the GitHub personal
access token we created earlier, using the following command:

```shell
GH_REPO_OWNER=<YOUR_GITHUB_USER>
GH_REPO=<YOUR_GITHUB_REPO>
GH_API_TOKEN=<YOUR_GITHUB_TOKEN>

> kubectl create secret generic github-token -n simple-go --from-literal=SECURE_DATA="{\"githubRepo\":\"${GH_REPO}\",\"githubRepoOwner\":\"${GH_REPO_OWNER}\",\"apiToken\":\"${GH_API_TOKEN}\"}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl create secret generic github-token -n simple-go \
       --from-literal=SECURE_DATA=" \
{\"githubRepo\":\"${GH_REPO}\",\"githubRepoOwner\":\"${GH_REPO_OWNER}\",\"apiToken\":\"${GH_API_TOKEN}\"}"
```

```

### Prepare the ArgoCD applications

The next step is to
create the ArgoCD applications in our cluster.

> Each stage of our application (`dev` `production`) is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each stage of our application (`dev` and `prod`) is
```

> represented by a separate ArgoCD application which points to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
represented by a separate ArgoCD application that points to
```

a Helm chart for the respective stage.
The Helm charts can be found in our [GitOps repository](https://github.com/bacherfl/keptn-analysis-demo)
in the following sub folders:

- `simple-app/chart-dev`: Contains the Helm chart for the application in the `dev` stage
- `simple-app/chart-prod`: Contains the Helm chart for the application in the `prod` stage

The ArgoCD applications are created by applying the following manifest:

```yaml title="argo-apps.yaml"
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/argo-apps.yaml" %}
```

> The manifest above contains the definition for the two ArgoCD applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This manifest contains the definitions for the two ArgoCD applications
```

each of which points to one of the helm charts mentioned earlier.
In addition to that, the `$ARGOCD_APP_REVISION` environment variable
is used to get access to the git commit ID that triggered
a new deployment of our applications.

> This ID is passed through to the Helm chart and is used by
> Keptn to include this as metadata for a `KeptnApp` deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ID is passed through to the Helm chart.
Keptn uses this as metadata for a `KeptnApp` deployment.
```

After applying the file, using `kubectl apply -f argo-apps.yaml`,
ArgoCD begins to synchronize the state of the applications,
meaning that the Helm charts for the applications are applied to the
cluster.
While this is happening, let's have a closer look at the actual
content of the Helm charts.

### What's in the Helm chart for dev stage

> Both charts contain two `Deployments/Services`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each chart contains two `Deployments/Services`
```

(`simple-go-service` and `simple-go-backend`), representing
the two `KeptnWorkloads` that are part of our `KeptnApp`.
Let's take the `simple-go-service` `Deployment` as an example
to see how we prepared it to be managed by Keptn:

```yaml
{% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/deployment.yaml" %}
```

#### Labels

To correctly associate the `Deployment` resource with the `KeptnWorkload` resource,
the following labels are set:

- `app.kubernetes.io/name`: The name of the `KeptnWorkload` that should be associated with the `Deployment`.
- `app.kubernetes.io/part-of`: The name of the `KeptnApp` containing the two workloads.
- `app.kubernetes.io/version`: The version for the related `KeptnWorkload`.

#### Pre and post-deployment tasks

In addition to the labels which define the `KeptnWorkload`, we also use
the `keptn.sh/post-deployment-tasks` to define a post-deployment task for the
workload.

> The task defined here (`wait-for-monitoring`) ensures the Prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The task defined here (`wait-for-monitoring`) ensures that the Prometheus
```

target for the workload is available, before proceeding with
the execution of the load tests of the overall application.

#### KeptnAppContext

The `KeptnAppContext`  provides two important capabilities for multi-stage delivery:

- Define tasks and evaluations that run before or after the application deployment
- Add metadata and links to traces for a specific application.
This enables you to enrich your traces
with additional information that you can use
to understand and analyze the performance of your applications
which looks as follows:

> ```yaml
> {% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/keptnappcontext.yaml" %}
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```yaml
  {% include "./multi-stage-delivery-using- 
  gitops/keptnappcontext.yaml" %}
  ```
```
I think this will get the yaml code to be nested under the bullet point but check the output -- these indentations are really fickle!

Once all workloads have been deployed, the application enters the
`post-deployment` phase, in which load tests against the application are
executed.

After executing the load tests, a `post-deployment` evaluation is
performed, to compare the response time measured by the load tests with a threshold you have defined.

If this evaluation is successful, the application proceeds into the
`promotion` phase.
This is the phase where the GitHub personal access token we created earlier
is used to trigger the GitHub action to promote the deployed version
into the next stage.

#### Metadata

In addition to the pre-/post-deployment checks and the promotion task,
the `KeptnAppContext` also contains a `metadata` property that
passes the `commitID` made available by ArgoCD to the
application deployment.
This information is then added by Keptn as an attribute to the
OpenTelemetry traces created for the application deployment.

To configure the application, the `values.yaml`
file is used.
Within that file, the versions for the two workloads that
are part of the application are defined,
as well as the target response time for the evaluation
in the post-deployment phase.

> Also, the git commit ID mentioned earlier is set here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Git commit ID mentioned earlier is also set here.
```

> The git commit ID is empty by default, but is set automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Git commit ID is empty by default, but is set automatically
```

This causes the OpenTelemetry deployment trace in `prod` to have a reference
to the `promotion` phase in `dev`, indicating that the successful deployment
of the application in `dev` is what caused the deployment in `prod`.

## Promotion flow from `dev` to `prod`

Now that the GitOps repository and the ArgoCD application are set up,
let's have a closer look at how a new service version would make its way
into `dev` and then into `prod`.
To do this, the `values.yaml` file for the `dev` stage is edited to
change th service version from `v1` to `v2`:

![Updating the dev stage](./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/updating-dev.png)

After this change is committed to the GitOps repository, ArgoCD
eventually starts to synchronize the application, and the new service
version is deployed to `dev`.
This is reflected by a new `KeptnAppVersion` being created by Keptn,
for which the pre-/post-deployment checks
and the evaluation that were mentioned earlier are executed.
After some time, the new version is up and running in `dev`
and the deployment trace for the new `KeptnAppVersion` is
visible in Jaeger:

![Deployment trace dev](./multi-stage-delivery-using-gitops/deployment-trace-dev.png)

> As you can see, the generated trace also contains the commitID that triggered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that the generated trace also contains the commitID that triggered
```
